Docs Revamp: new "Repositories" page for hub-docs (#92)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/repositories.md

---
title: Repositories
---

<h1>Repositories</h1>

## What is a repository?

Models, Spaces, and datasets are hosted on the Hugging Face Hub as [Git repositories](https://git-scm.com/about), which means that version control and collaboration are core elements of the Hub. In a nutshell, a repository (also known as a **"repo"**) is a place where code and assets can be stored to back up your work and to (optionally) share it with the community. There are specific sections in these docs detailing how **models, spaces, and datasets** can each be managed, but in this document we will go over the basics of getting started with Git and interacting with repositories on the Hub. Once you have the hang of it, you can explore the best practices and next steps that we've compiled for effective repository usage.

## Getting started

### Requirements

If you do not yet have `git` available as a CLI command, you will first need to [install Git for your platform](https://git-scm.com/downloads). You will also need to [install Git LFS](https://git-lfs.github.com/), which will be used to handle large files such as images and model weights.

> We also recommend you create a [Hugging Face account](https://huggingface.co/join) which you'll be able to use to create and manage repositories on the Hub.

Author: Yeah it's obvious, but I'd added that in just because if I talk about `huggingface-cli login`, I figured it's useful to remind them that they need to create an account if they haven't already. But I can definitely remove it!

To be able to push your code to the Hub, you'll need to authenticate somehow. The easiest way to do this is by installing the [`huggingface_hub` CLI](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/index) and running the login command:

```bash
python -m pip install huggingface_hub
huggingface-cli login

> ```

Author: The subpages that I'm splitting this into are Getting Started, Best Practices, and Next Steps. Would I put this in all 3 sections? I figure that if someone's looking at doing something in the "Best Practices", they would look in "Getting Started" to make sure they'd have the requirements all set.

Or do you think the subpages should be even more granular? e.g. Getting Started > Creating a repo, Getting Started > Cloning repos, etc.

### Creating a repository

Using the Hub's web interface you can easily create repositories, add files (even large ones!), explore models, visualize diffs, and much more. There are three kinds of repositories on the Hub, and in this guide we'll be creating a **model repository** for demonstration purposes. For information on creating and managing models, datasets, and Spaces, refer to their respective documentation.

1. To create a new repository, visit [huggingface.co/new](http://huggingface.co/new):

![/docs/assets/hub/new_repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/new_repo.png)

2. First, specify the owner of the repository: this can be either you or any of the organizations you’re affiliated with. 

3. Next, enter your model’s name. This will also be the name of the repository. Finally, you can specify whether you want your model to be public or private.

You can leave the *License* field blank for now. To learn about licenses, visit the **Licenses** (TODO: LINK TO LICENSES) section of this document.

> After creating your model repository, you should see a page like this:

Reviewer: Keeping each of the items in an ordered list makes more sense to me since it is a sequential process, and I wonder if making headers out of them would kind of disrupt that.

> After creating your model repository, you should see a page like this:

Author: Yup, agreed with @stevhliu ! This particular section feels like it works best as an ordered list.

![/docs/assets/hub/empty_repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/empty_repo.png)

Note that the Hub prompts you to create a *Model Card*, which you can learn about in the **Model Cards documentation** (TODO: LINK). Including a Model Card in your model repo is best practice, but since we're only making a test repo at the moment we can skip this.

### Cloning repositories

Downloading repositories to your local machine is called *cloning*. You can use the following commands to load the repo that we made and navigate to it:
```bash
git clone https://huggingface.co/<your-username>/<your-model-id>
cd <your-model-id>
```

Then, *within the local repo*, you'll need to run the following to set up Git LFS:
```bash
git lfs install

> ```

Reviewer 2: This is just needed if you want to later on upload files, so maybe this should be in the following section

Author: I've actually had HF repos immediately complain even when I'm pushing small binary files, e.g. just a PNG or JPEG file if I don't have LFS set up, so I've been defaulting to using LFS immediately. Is that supposed to happen, or do you think something might be wrong with my setup?

Reviewer 2: No no, you're entirely right, for binary files you need to be tracking them. 

What I intended to say is that, right now, this command is in the " Cloning repositories" section, but I think it should be in " Adding files to a repository"

### Adding files to a repository

Now's the time 🔥 You can add any files you want to the repository!

You can do this with the usual Git workflow:

> 

Reviewer 2: There's a section on https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/adding-a-model which is relevant here as well

```
Do you have files larger than 10MB? Those files are tracked with git-lfs. We already provide a list of common file extensions for these files in .gitattributes, but you might need to add new extensions if they are not already handled. You can do so with git lfs track "*.your_extension".
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Also, for files larger of 5GB, users need to do the following which will require `huggingface_hub` installed

`huggingface-cli lfs-enable-largefiles .` (from https://discuss.huggingface.co/t/is-there-a-size-limit-for-dataset-hosting/14861/2), which is not well documented yet.

Something we could do, is having some info section or collapsable, with some other background color, saying "Are your files larger than 10MB?" and "Are your files larger than 5GB?" and then showing it. WDYT?

Reviewer: Love the background color idea!

Author: Sounds good to me! Do we have a preference on how to include that block? I could embed something with HTML + Tailwind CSS since Tailwind classes are already available in Moon Landing, but then that would add a bunch of noise to the Markdown. Something I've worked with before is doing something like "Callouts", e.g. (https://rdmd.readme.io/docs/callouts), where we can just use Markdown block-quotes but they render nicely:

``` md
> 💡 Tip!
> 
> Are your files larger than 10MB? etc. etc.
```

I haven't looked too deep into our markdown parser in Moon Landing, but maybe it's possible to extend it to support stuff like that easily? (Our parser's docs: https://marked.js.org/using_pro#extensions)

Reviewer 2: @mishig25 @julien-c any ideas on this? The idea would be to have a different background as we were doing already with the course

Reviewer 3: should be reasonably easy to do if needed, yes

```bash
# Create any files you like! Then...

> git add .

Reviewer 2: The git lfs will also be needed before

git commit -m "First model version"  # You can choose any descriptive message
git push
```

And we're done! You can check your repository on Hugging Face with all the recently added files. For example, in the screenshot below the user added a number of files. Note that one of the files in this example has a size of `413.3 MB`, so the repo would use Git LFS to track it.

![/docs/assets/hub/repo_with_files.png](/docs/assets/hub/repo_with_files.png)

Every time you go through the `add`-`commit`-`push` cycle, the repo will keep track of every change you've made to your files. The UI allows you to explore the model files and commits and to see the difference (also known as *diff*) introduced by each commit:

> ![/docs/assets/hub/explore_history.gif](/docs/assets/hub/explore_history.gif)

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should go in a different heading and focus a bit more on the history of the repo. WDYT?

- Transferring a repository from a source organization to another target organization. The user must have "admin" rights in the source organization **and** either "write" or "admin" rights in the target organization. 

Moving does not work for ❌
- Transferring a repository from an organization to another user who is not yourself.
- Transferring a repository from a source organization to another target organization if the user does not have both "admin" rights in the source organization **and** either "write" or "admin" rights in the target organization.
- Transferring a repository from user A to user B.

If these are use cases you need help with, please send us an email at **website at huggingface.co**.

### Dealing with large files

Do you have files larger than 10MB? Those files should be tracked with `git-lfs`. When you use Hugging Face to create a repository, we automatically provide a list of common file extensions for these sfiles in `.gitattributes`, which `git-lfs` uses to efficiently track changes to your large files. However, you might need to add new extensions if your file types are not already handled. You can do so with `git lfs track "*.your_extension"`.

> 

Reviewer 2: I will remove this based on the comment from above (moving this to the uploading files section)

### Security for repositories

`git` has an authentication layer to control who can push commits to a repo, but it does not authentify the actual commit authors.

In other words, you can commit changes as `Elon Musk <elon@tesla.com>`, push them to your preferred `git` host (for instance github.com) and your commit will link to Elon's GitHub profile. (Try it! But don't blame us if Elon gets mad at you for impersonating him)

See this post by Ale Segala for more context: [How (and why) to sign `git` commits](https://withblue.ink/2020/05/17/how-and-why-to-sign-git-commits.html)

> You can prove a commit was authored by you, using GNU Privacy Guard (GPG) and a key server. GPG is a cryptographic tool used to verify the authenticity of a message's origin. To learn about setting up signed commits verification with GPG, visit the [**Security**](TODO) section of our docs!

Reviewer 2: I think we can keep most of this in the security section. What is more interesting/easier to understand (less advanced) though is the malware scanning (https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security#malware-scanning) which could go nicely here. 

An alternative is to mention the different security features we have and link to their corresponding docs. WDYT?

Author: Good call! I think it makes sense to mention the malware scanning, and I can then offload the security features to their respective docs.

### Licenses

> You are able to add a license to any repo that you create on the Hugging Face Hub to let other users know about the permissions that you want to attribute to your code. Likewise, remember to seek out and respect a project's license if you're considering using their code.

Reviewer 2: I would also mention that the license is in the model/dataset/space card (the `README.md`), in the metadata at the top.

A [**full list of the available licenses**](TODO) is available in these docs.

## Next steps

> A good place to visit if you want to continue learning about Git is [GitHub's "Using Git" tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git). These next sections highlight features and additional information that you may find useful to make the most out of the Git repositories on the Hugging Face Hub.

Reviewer 2: I think https://learngitbranching.js.org/ is more fun :smile:

Reviewer 2: I saw it was linked below, I think Git Branching is not just for branches, but for everything, so I think it's a good resource here as well

> A good place to visit if you want to continue learning about Git is [GitHub's "Using Git" tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git). These next sections highlight features and additional information that you may find useful to make the most out of the Git repositories on the Hugging Face Hub.

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's put this in a "Learning more about Git" section

### How to use branches

> To effectively use Git repos collaboratively and to work on features without releasing premature code you can use **branches**. Branches allow you to separate your "work in progress" code from your "production-ready" code, with the additional benefit of letting multiple people work on a project without frequently conflicting with each others' contributions. To learn about Git branching, you can try out the [Learn Git Branching interactive tutorial](https://learngitbranching.js.org/).

Reviewer 2: Branches have also been used sometimes when people have different experiments, we could also mention it here

> 

Reviewer 2: Would be cool to have an image here. Maybe @Bibi-O or @gary149 can help creating an illustration for branches.

### Using tags

Git allows you to *tag* commits so that you can easily note milestones in your project. As such, you can use tags to mark commits in your Hub repos! To learn about using tags, you can visit [this DevConnected post](https://devconnected.com/how-to-create-git-tags/).

Beyond making it easy to identify important commits in your repo's history, using Git tags also allows you to [clone a repository at a specific tag](https://www.techiedelight.com/clone-specific-tag-with-git/). The `huggingface_hub` library also supports working with tags, such as [downloading files from a specific tagged commit](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/how-to-downstream#hfhuburl).

### How to duplicate/fork a repo (including LFS pointers)

> A duplicate of a repository is called a *fork*. You may choose to fork one of your own repos, but it also common to fork other people's projects if you would like to tinker with them.

Reviewer 2: Duplicate and fork are actually a bit of different concepts. 

Fork = keep all the original git history. This is really a GH concept and although we support it with the list of commands below, it's not a very common flow. This might change at one point with the PRs on the Hub.
Duplicator = duplicate the repo, but without its git history. This is very common for people working with Spaces, as many times you want to get started from another space. Users can use https://huggingface.co/spaces/osanseviero/repo_duplicator for this, so maybe it's worth adding it here.

For example, say you have an upstream repository, **upstream**, and you just created your own repository on the Hub which is **myfork** in this example.

1. Create a destination repository (e.g. **myfork**) in https://huggingface.co 

2. Clone your fork repository

```
git lfs clone https://huggingface.co/me/myfork.git
```

3. Fetch non LFS files

```
cd myfork
git lfs install --skip-smudge --local # affects only this clone
git remote add upstream https://huggingface.co/friend/upstream.git
git fetch upstream
```

4. Fetch large files. This can take some time depending on your download bandwidth

```
git lfs fetch --all upstream # this can take time depending on your download bandwidth
```

4.a. If you want to override completely the fork history (which should only have an initial commit), run:

```
git reset --hard upstream/main
```

4.b. If you want to rebase instead of overriding, run the following command and solve any conflicts

```
git rebase upstream/main
```

5. Prepare your LFS files to push

```
git lfs install --force --local # this reinstalls the LFS hooks

> huggingface-cli lfs-enable-largefiles . # needed if some files are bigger than 5Gb

Reviewer 2: Note that this needs `huggingface_hub` installed

3. Next, enter your model’s name. This will also be the name of the repository. Finally, you can specify whether you want your model to be public or private.

You can leave the *License* field blank for now. To learn about licenses, visit the **Licenses** (TODO: LINK TO LICENSES) section of this document.

After creating your model repository, you should see a page like this:

![/docs/assets/hub/empty_repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/empty_repo.png)

Note that the Hub prompts you to create a *Model Card*, which you can learn about in the **Model Cards documentation** (TODO: LINK). Including a Model Card in your model repo is best practice, but since we're only making a test repo at the moment we can skip this.

### Cloning repositories

Downloading repositories to your local machine is called *cloning*. You can use the following commands to load the repo that we made and navigate to it:
```bash
git clone https://huggingface.co/<your-username>/<your-model-id>
cd <your-model-id>
```

Then, *within the local repo*, you'll need to run the following to set up Git LFS:
```bash
git lfs install
```

### Adding files to a repository

> Now's the time 🔥 You can add any files you want to the repository!

Reviewer: The 🔥  kind of feels like an interruption in the middle of the sentence. No strong preferences though, so feel free to keep it there if you like! 

```suggestion
Now's the time, you can add any files you want to the repository! 🔥
```

> You can do this with the usual Git workflow:

Reviewer: > we will go over the basics of getting started with Git and interacting with repositories on the Hub

This sounds like we are assuming the audience is a beginner with Git, so I'm not sure if that includes understanding what the "usual Git workflow" is. I think we should clarify what the workflow is or redefine our audience a bit to be users who are already familiar with Git.

Author: Good point! I'll write a small explanation of the Git workflow to clarify it.

```bash
# Create any files you like! Then...
git add .
git commit -m "First model version"  # You can choose any descriptive message
git push
```

And we're done! You can check your repository on Hugging Face with all the recently added files. For example, in the screenshot below the user added a number of files. Note that one of the files in this example has a size of `413.3 MB`, so the repo would use Git LFS to track it.

> ![/docs/assets/hub/repo_with_files.png](/docs/assets/hub/repo_with_files.png)

Reviewer: Is it just my browser or are the file names in the image weirdly truncated? Also, I think we should be adding documentation-related images to this Hub [repo](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images) and referencing them from there, instead of adding them to the GitHub repo :)

Author: Nope, not just you! This is one of the old images and I just didn't re-do it. Totally, I can move this kind of stuff over to the Hub repo!

Author: I'm going to move the images over to the Hub repo, but I'm just running into some issues (https://huggingface.slack.com/archives/C01BWJU0YKW/p1649820110948279). Will do that as soon as I've figured the issue out!

> Every time you go through the `add`-`commit`-`push` cycle, the repo will keep track of every change you've made to your files. The UI allows you to explore the model files and commits and to see the difference (also known as *diff*) introduced by each commit:

Reviewer: Nice, you can clarify the usual Git workflow from earlier is the `add`-`commit`-`push` cycle!

Author: I ended up removing the "usual Git workflow" phrasing!

- Renaming a repository within same organization. The user must be part of the organization and have "write" or "admin" rights in the organization.
- Transferring repository from user to an organization. The user must be part of the organization and have "write" or "admin" rights in the organization.
- Transferring a repository from an organization to yourself. You must be part of the organization, and have "admin" rights in the organization.
- Transferring a repository from a source organization to another target organization. The user must have "admin" rights in the source organization **and** either "write" or "admin" rights in the target organization. 

Moving does not work for ❌
- Transferring a repository from an organization to another user who is not yourself.
- Transferring a repository from a source organization to another target organization if the user does not have both "admin" rights in the source organization **and** either "write" or "admin" rights in the target organization.
- Transferring a repository from user A to user B.

If these are use cases you need help with, please send us an email at **website at huggingface.co**.

### Dealing with large files

> Do you have files larger than 10MB? Those files should be tracked with `git-lfs`. When you use Hugging Face to create a repository, we automatically provide a list of common file extensions for these sfiles in `.gitattributes`, which `git-lfs` uses to efficiently track changes to your large files. However, you might need to add new extensions if your file types are not already handled. You can do so with `git lfs track "*.your_extension"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you have files larger than 10MB? Those files should be tracked with `git-lfs`. When you use Hugging Face to create a repository, we automatically provide a list of common file extensions for these files in `.gitattributes`, which `git-lfs` uses to efficiently track changes to your large files. However, you might need to add new extensions if your file types are not already handled. You can do so with `git lfs track "*.your_extension"`.
```

> ## Best practices

Reviewer: Same comment about this `h2` if it becomes a separate page, I think it'd be nice to have some introductory text like:

Here are some additional best practices to help you get the most out of your repository.

### Private Repositories

> You can choose a repository's visibility when you create it, and any repository that you own can have its visibility toggled between *public* and *private* in the **Settings** tab. Unless your repository is owned by an organization (more about that [**here!**](TODO)), you are the only user that can make changes to your repo or upload any code. Setting your visibility to *private* will ensure that your repo is not discoverable for other users by searching on the Hub, and that anyone other than you who visits the URL for your repo will receive `404 - Repo not found` error. Additionally, other users will not be able to clone your repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose a repository's visibility when you create it, and any repository that you own can have its visibility toggled between *public* and *private* in the **Settings** tab. Unless your repository is owned by an organization (more about that [**here!**](TODO)), you are the only user that can make changes to your repo or upload any code. Setting your visibility to *private* will:

 - Ensure your repo is not discoverable by other users by searching the Hub,
 - Other users who visit the URL of your private repo will receive a `404 - Repo not found` error. 
 - Other users will not be able to clone your repo.
```

### Security for repositories

> `git` has an authentication layer to control who can push commits to a repo, but it does not authentify the actual commit authors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`git` has an authentication layer to control who can push commits to a repo, but it does not authenticate the actual commit authors.
```

### Using tags

Git allows you to *tag* commits so that you can easily note milestones in your project. As such, you can use tags to mark commits in your Hub repos! To learn about using tags, you can visit [this DevConnected post](https://devconnected.com/how-to-create-git-tags/).

Beyond making it easy to identify important commits in your repo's history, using Git tags also allows you to [clone a repository at a specific tag](https://www.techiedelight.com/clone-specific-tag-with-git/). The `huggingface_hub` library also supports working with tags, such as [downloading files from a specific tagged commit](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/how-to-downstream#hfhuburl).

### How to duplicate/fork a repo (including LFS pointers)

A duplicate of a repository is called a *fork*. You may choose to fork one of your own repos, but it also common to fork other people's projects if you would like to tinker with them.

> When you want to fork or [rebase](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase) a repository with [LFS](https://git-lfs.github.com/) files you cannot use the usual Git approach that you might be familiar with since you need to be careful to not break the LFS pointers. Forking can take time depending on your bandwidth, because you will have to fetch an re-upload all the LFS files in your fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you want to fork or [rebase](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase) a repository with [LFS](https://git-lfs.github.com/) files you cannot use the usual Git approach that you might be familiar with since you need to be careful to not break the LFS pointers. Forking can take time depending on your bandwidth because you will have to fetch and re-upload all the LFS files in your fork.
```

For example, say you have an upstream repository, **upstream**, and you just created your own repository on the Hub which is **myfork** in this example.

1. Create a destination repository (e.g. **myfork**) in https://huggingface.co 

2. Clone your fork repository

```
git lfs clone https://huggingface.co/me/myfork.git
```

3. Fetch non LFS files

```
cd myfork
git lfs install --skip-smudge --local # affects only this clone
git remote add upstream https://huggingface.co/friend/upstream.git
git fetch upstream
```

4. Fetch large files. This can take some time depending on your download bandwidth

```
git lfs fetch --all upstream # this can take time depending on your download bandwidth
```

> 4.a. If you want to override completely the fork history (which should only have an initial commit), run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.a. If you want to completely override the fork history (which should only have an initial commit), run:
```
